# Fish sorter

## Introduction

In this module, you will produce a Fish Sorter - a computer vision/AI
system to sort fish. The aim here is to classify images of fish into
10 different species as they arrive to the Fish Sorter.

We have provided you with a dataset of ten species with approx. 1800
fish samples - [
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1k1fJ2K8CIYXvecy_CS2JIwG7vZL5WQB0
]. The fish images have been already pre-processed i.e. they have been
segmented from the background, which is masked to black. They are also
aligned so that they are oriented horizontally. The size of the
dataset is quite modest for the Deep Learning datasets, but this
should allow you to produce insightful results within the time scale
that is available.

The set of fish species you will be working with is rather contrived -
you will not catch examples of such fish in one haul at any place in
the world. This said, the dataset carries an educational value and
should be very useful from the point of view of this exercise.

We will use Google Colaboratory as a programming environment
[https://research.google.com/colaboratory/]. You will need a Google
Gmail account to work on this exercise. Please follow the separate
instructions in setup.pdf how to set the environment so that you could
utilise your local GPU within Google Colab.

We have created four tasks for you which vary in difficulty. We have
attempted to make them independent as much as possible so that you
will be able to work on them to a certain extent in parallel. It is up
to you to designate members of your team to different tasks according
to the expertise that is available within your team.

The tasks are listed below:

## Task 1:

You noticed we have mentioned that in our dataset each fish has been
pre-processed so that it is aligned horizontally. In a real scenario,
this may not be the case. Hence, in Task 1, you need to apply random
rotations to your fish images and then attempt to automatically
re-align them horizontally. This task is trivial in comparison to the
following tasks. Do not even think of using Deep Learning
here. Evaluate your results.

## Task 2:

In this task, you will build a fish classifier - a basic system that
achieves the aims of this module. You should use the original images
you have been provided i.e. assume that Task 1 has been completed and
fish are aligned horizontally, which they are.

Consider using transfer learning to increase the accuracy and the
speed of training your model.

## Task 3:

In this task you will work on improving the robustness of your model.

You can imagine a situation when fish will arrive in groups where they
partially occlude one another and hence, are only partially
visible. Here, you will need to propose a solution how to solve this
problem, discuss it with the teaching staff and finally implement it.

You will need to investigate the impact of partial occlusion by
another fish on your classifier. You can occlude fish images by some
other fish shapes from the database - the fish shapes can be extracted
as all database images have background set to black, or by some other
random geometrical shapes e.g. rectangles.

Of course, in a real application you would need to segment the
overlapping fish in order to classify each instance. You can assume
that the segmentation has been done - we will look at segmentation in
Task 4 - here you do know the segmentation ground-truth as the
occlusions have been synthetically generated by you.

Re-evaluate the basic model from Task 2 on a synthetically generated
dataset and compare with the robust model from Task 3.

## Task 4:

In this task you will propose and implement a solution for
segmentation of occluding fish.

Generate a synthetic dataset for your experiment. Keep the BG fish
fixed and rotate the FG fish and place randomly on top of BG fish.

Perform the segmentation and extract two separate fish (masks) from
images, evaluate your segmentation error.

## Hints

We have tried to make the tasks as independent as possible so that you
could work in parallel and also limit the damage if you get stuck on
one of the tasks. If you do get stuck, please seek help and advice
from the teaching staff.
