# The Fish Seller Module

## Background

In this team we are interested in the possibilities for selling fish
from the boat as it arrives at the quayside.  Although fishing in the
UK is governed by a complicated system of quotas which mean that there
are restrictions on a fishing boat’s economic activities, we suggest
that, rather than focus on macro-economic systems, you might consider
three aspects of the system:

1.	the margins associated with fish sales;
2.	the IT system necessary to link fishers to buyers;
3.	the investment case for a robot fisher.

The investment case, Item 3, sounds complex but in essence you need to
convince yourselves that it would make economic good sense for a
fisher to buy your machine and that you can make the machine
economically enough.  You might assume that you need a 50% margin.
Thus if robot fisher sells for £100k, you need to be able to make it,
at volume, for £50k.  And a fisher is spending £100k how long will
they take to pay back that investment?

To make progress on that argument you need answers to Items 1 and 2.

Item 2 might sound daunting but www.abalobi.com, already exhibits some
of the features that you might find useful.  There is also developing
technology for blockchain recording of fish (www.chainzy.com). Recall
that, in food, traceability and provenance are super important and may
offer yet more opportunities for increased margin.

Item 1 is probably the more complex item as margins vary daily, by
region and apparently small changes in delivery can change margins
quite dramatically – people are prepared to pay more for a cold
congealed pizza provided it is delivered to their doorstep by a sweaty
cyclist than if they had to pop it in the oven themselves.  Or are
they?  To consider this aspect you might consider the 4 Ps of
marketing – each P affects the viability of the business and needs
some thinking about in advance.

You will note that the other task teams are focussed on identifying
the hurdles in building a proof-of-concept demonstrator.  They will be
tackling that via a series of small-scale experiments and simulations.
You might well decide to go that route, in which case the IT system is
clearly an area of focus.  Or you might decide that much of the basic
technology is already in place (think TRL levels) and your attention
should be on the financial viability of the overall proposition.  You,
of all the teams, have the best chance to consider the overall
viability of the system and the way that the components need to fit
together so might also decide to consider the systems engineering
aspects of your product.
